---
author: neo.hong@tron.network
category: VM
created: '2021-08-16'
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- VM
tip: '318'
title: Adapt to Ethereum London Upgrade
type: Standards Track
---

## Abstract

- Add a `BASEFEE(0x48)` that returns the value of the network parameter that defines the fee of 1 unit of `Energy`
- Disallow new code starting with the `0xEF` byte to be deployed. Code already existing in the code store starting with `0xEF` byte is not affected semantically by this change.

## Motivation

The Ethernet London Upgrade has been activated on its mainnet on August 5 2021 and this upgrade includes several new EIPs. As a fully EVM-compatible vm implementation for TRON network, TVM needs to introduce two of these changes involving virtual machines.

## Specifications

### Specification-A

Add a `BASEFEE` opcode at `(0x48)`, with energy cost `E_base(2)`.

The `BASEFEE` takes no operand pop up from the stack and push the value of the fee for 1 energy to the stack.

### Specification-B

After the `ALLOW_TVM_LONDON` proposal approved, new contract creation (via deploy transaction, `CREATE` or `CREATE2` instructions) results in an exceptional abort if the code’s first byte is `0xEF`.

The initcode is the code executed in the context of the deploy transaction, `CREATE`, or `CREATE2` instructions. The initcode returns code (via the `RETURN` instruction), which is inserted into the code store.

The opcode `0xEF` is currently an undefined instruction, therefore: It pops no stack items and pushes no stack items, and it causes an exceptional abort when executed. This means initcode or already deployed code starting with this instruction will continue to abort execution.

The exceptional abort due to code starting with `0xEF` behaves exactly the same as any other exceptional abort that can occur during initcode execution, i.e. in case of abort all gas provided to a `CREATE*` or deploy transaction is consumed.

## Backwards Compatibility
For `Specification-A`, there are no known backward compatibility issues with the `BASEFEE` opcode.

For `Specification-B`, it is a breaking change given new code starting with the `0xEF` byte will not be deployable, and contract creation will result in a failure. However, given bytecode is executed starting at its first byte, code deployed with `0xEF` as the first byte is not executable anyway.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).