---
author: neo hong neo.hong@tron.network
category: VM
created: '2020-12-07'
discussions to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/209
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- VM
tip: '209'
title: Adapt to Solidity 0.6.0.
type: Standards Track
---

## Simple Summary

Adapt to Solidity 0.6.0.

## Abstract

Update Java-Tron and Tron solidity compiler adapt to solidity 0.6.0.

## Motivation

Solidity 0.6.0 provides many features which can improve development efficiency and safety. Solidity 0.6.0 is a major breaking release of the Solidity compiler and language. Changes include explicit virtual and override keywords in inheritance, support for try/catch, splitting the fallback function into a receive TRX function and an actual fallback function and limitations on how the length of an array can be changed, among others. From this release on, ABIEncoderV2 is not considered experimental any more, but developers still have to activate it through the pragma. Furthermore, the Yul optimizer is automatically activated together with the regular optimizer, but developers can still disable it through the detailed optimizer settings.

## Specification

### Breaking changes
- ABI: Remove the deprecated `constant` and `payable` fields.
- ABI: The type field is now required and no longer specified to default to `function`.
- General: Disallow explicit conversions from external function types to `address` and add a member called `address` to them as replacement.
- General: Enable Yul optimizer as part of standard optimization.
- General: New reserved keywords: `override`, `receive`, and `virtual`.
- General: private cannot be used together with `virtual`.
- General: Split unnamed fallback functions into two cases defined using `fallback()` and `receive()`.
- Syntax: `push(element)` for dynamic storage arrays do not return the new length anymore.
- Syntax: Abstract contracts need to be marked explicitly as abstract by using the `abstract` keyword.
- Syntax: `length` member of arrays is now always read-only, even for storage arrays.

### Language Features:
- Allow explicit conversions from `address` to `address payable` via `payable(...)`.
- Introduce `push()` for dynamic storage arrays. It returns a reference to the newly allocated element, if applicable.
- Introduce `virtual` and `override` keywords.
- Introduce `try`/`catch`-statement(`revert` and `require` can be caught now, others will be supported soon).
- Modify `push(element)` for dynamic storage arrays such that it does not return the new length anymore.

### Compiler Features:
- Allow revert strings to be stripped from the binary using the `--revert-strings` option or the `settings.debug.revertStrings` setting.
- ABIEncoderV2: Do not warn about enabled ABIEncoderV2 anymore (the pragma is still needed, though).


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).