---
author: yanghang8612@163.com
category: VM
created: '2024-04-10'
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- VM
tip: '652'
title: Announce EIP-6049 Deprecate SELFDESTRUCT
type: Meta
---

## Summary
The `SELFDESTRUCT` opcode has been deprecated after the Ethereum Shanghai upgrade and its behavior has been modified after the Ethereum Cancun upgrade. For compatibility, [EIP-6049: Deprecate SELFDESTRUCT](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-6049) is required to be announced in the TRON community firstly.

The following compatibility issues require community attention.

- Contracts that depended on re-deploying contracts at the same address using `CREATE2` (after a `SELFDESTRUCT`) may not function properly.

- It may be no longer possible to burn TRX by calling `SELFDESTRUCT` targeting the executing contract as the beneficiary.

**Original content from EIP-6049:**

## Abstract

This EIP deprecates the `SELFDESTRUCT` opcode and warns against its use. A breaking change to this functionality is likely to come in the future.

## Motivation

Discussions about how to change `SELFDESTRUCT` are ongoing. But there is a strong consensus that *something* will change.

## Specification

Documentation of the `SELFDESTRUCT` opcode is updated to warn against its use and to note that a breaking change may be forthcoming.

## Rationale

As time goes on, the cost of doing something increases, because any change to `SELFDESTRUCT` will be a breaking change.

The Ethereum Blog and other official sources have not provided any warning to developers about a potential forthcoming change.

## Backwards Compatibility

This EIP updates non-normative text in the Yellow Paper. No changes to clients is applicable.

## Security Considerations

None.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).