---
author: yanghang8612@163.com
category: VM
created: '2022-04-06'
discussions to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/TIPs/issues/384
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- VM
tip: '397'
title: Raise limit of the 13th network parameter
type: Standards Track
---

## Abstract

Raise the limit of the 13th(MAX_CPU_TIME_OF_ONE_TX) network parameter.

## Motivation

The 13th network parameter now ranges from 10 to 100 ms. This range currently greatly limits developers from designing more diverse and complex applications such as DeFi, GameFi, etc.

Therefore the purpose of this TIP is to extend the limit of the range of the 13th network parameter.

## Specifications

After the `ALLOW_HIGHER_LIMIT_FOR_MAX_CPU_TIME_OF_ONE_TX` takes effect, the limit for the 13th network parameter will change from 100 ms to `400` ms.

## Rationale

### The time range for SR to produce blocks

TRON network generates block every 3 seconds. According to the design of the TRON's DPOS consensus mechanism, the time range for SR to produce blocks is 450 to 1500 ms.

The `timeout` calculation algorithm is shown in the following code which link is at [DposTask.java](https://github.com/tronprotocol/java-tron/blob/develop/consensus/src/main/java/org/tron/consensus/dpos/DposTask.java#L106).

```
    ...
    long timeout =
        pTime + BLOCK_PRODUCED_INTERVAL / 2 * dposService.getBlockProduceTimeoutPercent() / 100;
    ...
```

The range of `getBlockProduceTimeoutPercent()` is set in the following code which link is at [Args.java](https://github.com/tronprotocol/java-tron/blob/develop/framework/src/main/java/org/tron/core/config/args/Args.java#L526).

```
    ...
    if (PARAMETER.blockProducedTimeOut < 30) {
      PARAMETER.blockProducedTimeOut = 30;
    }
    if (PARAMETER.blockProducedTimeOut > 100) {
      PARAMETER.blockProducedTimeOut = 100;
    }
    ...
```

Therefore the time range for SR to produce blocks can be calculated by `3000 / 2 * 30 / 100 ~ 3000 / 2 * 100 / 100 = 450 ~ 1500`

### Why the limit cannot exceed 450ms

According to the above analysis, SR can set its own block production time to a minimum of 450ms. Then assuming that the 13th network parameter is set to a value greater than 450ms, it means that the SR cannot package any other system contract transaction after it packages a smart contract transaction that exceeds 450ms.

## Backwards Compatibility

This is a breaking change given proposal to set the 13th network parameter to a new value greater than 100 will be legal. So need a hard fork to achieve.

## Security Considerations

There are no known security considerations issues.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).