---
author: yanghang8612@163.com
category: VM
created: '2024-04-30'
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- VM
tip: '653'
title: Adjust energy cost of SUICIDE and VOTEWITNESS opcodes in TVM
type: Standards Track
---

## Simple Summary
This TIP aims to adjust the energy cost of TVM opcodes based on actual resource consumption.

## Abstract
Adjust the energy cost for several opcodes (such as `SUICIDE` and `VOTEWITNESS`) in TVM to better reflect the actual resource consumption of opcode execution and to ensure that the costs are reasonable.

## Motivation
The `SUICIDE` opcode is used to destroy smart contracts and release related resources. The `VOTEWITNESS` opcode is a TRON-specific opcode that allows a contract account to perform voting operations on certain SRs just like an EOA account.

However, the current energy cost mechanism may have some deficiencies, failing to effectively reflect the resources and time costs required for the execution of `SUICIDE` and `VOTEWITNESS` opcodes, potentially leading to unreasonable costs.

1. **Adjustment of Energy Cost:** The current energy cost for the `SUICIDE` and `VOTEWITNESS` opcodea may be comparatively low compared to other opcodes, failing to adequately consider the resources and time costs required for execution. It is proposed to adjust the energy cost for the `SUICIDE` and `VOTEWITNESS` opcodes appropriately to better reflect the actual costs.

2. **Consideration of Execution Time:** The execution of the `SUICIDE` and `VOTEWITNESS` opcodes may involve complex operations and require a certain amount of time to complete. Therefore, the impact of opcode execution time on energy cost should be considered to ensure that the cost is proportional to the execution time.

3. **Reasonability:** When adjusting energy costs, it should be ensured that the costs reflect the consumption of resources by the opcodes to avoid the possibility of potential DDoS attacks.

## Specification

After the `getAllowEnergyAdjustment(81th)` proposal takes effect, the `SUICIDE` opcode will charge an additional `25,000` energy cost, if the recipient does not exist. Also, the `VOTEWITNESS` opcode will be charged a memory expansion energy cost of at least 32 bytes (array length) for its dynamic array parameters.

## Rationale

The rationale behind proposing an adjustment to the energy cost for the `SUICIDE` and `VOTEWITNESS` opcodes in TVM stems from several key considerations:

- **Efficiency**: Aligning the cost with actual resource consumption encourages developers to optimize contracts, leading to more efficient resource allocation.
- **Security**: A more accurate cost reduces the risk of abuse and network disruptions, enhancing overall security and stability.
- **Community Involvement**: Engaging the TRON community ensures support and alignment with network interests, promoting transparency and accountability.

## Backwards Compatibility
These energy cost increases may potentially break contracts that depend on fixed energy costs.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).