---
author: taihao.fu@gmail.com
category: Core
created: '2020-08-12'
status: Draft
tags:
- Draft
- Core
tip: '178'
title: TOKENISSUE and UPDATEASSET Instruction in TVM
type: Standards Track
---

## Simple Summary

To provide TOKENISSUE and UPDATEASSET Instructions in TVM.

## Abstract

Provide TRC10 asset issue and update functionalities for smart contract.

## Motivation

Asset issued  in smart contract is feasible for developers to provide asset management according to a smart contract status. Asset issue related instruction is a big plus to the whole life cycle of TRC10. Previous implementation only consider about TRC10 transfer cases. However, a coinbase for TRC10 token is never mentioned in TVM level. `ASSETISSUE` instruction pefect the whole logic system. And makes TRC10 fully controlled by decentralized exchanges and apps to be possible.

## Specification

### `0xda`: `TOKENISSUE`

`TOKENISSUE` takes 4 operands pop up from stack.

`name`: the name of the TRC10 token. No more than 32 bytes.

`abbreviation`: the abbreviation of the TRC10 token. No more than 32 bytes.

`total_supply`: the total supply of the TRC10 token. A uint64 value.

`precision`: the precision of the TRC10 token. A uint8 value.

The return value the current address account balance.

### `0xdb`: `UPDATEASSET`

`UPDATEASSET` takes 4 operands pop up from stack.

`TRC10_token_id`: the TRC10 token id. Should bigger than 1000000.

`url_offset`: read the token url as a string, and the value is the string offset in TVM memory.

`description_offset`: read the token description as a string, and the value is the string offset in TVM memory.

The return value the current address account balance.

## Rationale

### `TOKENISSUE` tier.ExtTier

25000 Energy

### `UPDATEASSET` tier.ExtTier

5000 Energy

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).