---
author: halibobo1205@gmail.com
category: Core
created: '2023-12-21'
discussions-to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/635
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- Core
tip: '635'
title: Optimize Reward Withdrawal To Improve TPS
type: Standards Track
---

# Simple Summary
This TIP aims to optimize the algorithm of the voting reward withdrawal in Phase1 (since TIP-53, before TIP-465 took effect) to improve the TPS of such transactions.

# Abstract
There are currently two phases of the TRON protocol voting reward:

* Phase1: Since TIP-53 and before TIP-465 took effect, the voting reward withdrawal is calculated accumulatively, and the time complexity is O(n).
* Phase2: After TIP-465, its voting reward withdrawal adopts a more efficient calculation method, and the time complexity is O(1).

Due to the poor performance of the current Phase1 voting reward withdrawal algorithm, when a user who has Phase1 reward initiates the transactions triggering the algorithm, the performance of the network would degrade.



This TIP proposes a scheme that optimizes the relevant calculation complexity to O(1) for Phase1 without an additional reward withdrawal logic, greatly optimizing the calculation performance of Phase1 reward and improving the TPS.

# Motivation
### Performance
According to statistics, there are currently about 160k users on the TRON mainnet who have Phase1 rewards to be withdrawn. By comparing the performance of the Phase1 reward algorithm before and after optimization in the test environment, it is expected that this optimization plan can improve performance by >20 times.

### User Reward
The current Phase1 voting reward withdrawal uses truncation at the end of the decimal, resulting in the current actual value being slightly smaller than the expected value. The optimized algorithm will adopt higher calculation accuracy, and the calculation value will be closer to the expected values. At the same time, the difference in results before and after optimization will be controlled within 1 TRX, which will have almost no impact on the TRX inflation of the entire network and user rewards.

# Specification
### Glossary
* **maintenance**: maintenance period, responsible for logical processing, such as voting, voting reward calculation, and proposal validation in the current cycle. Each maintenance period of the main network is 6 hours.
* **phase1.algorithm1**: current reward withdrawal algorithm for **Phase1**
* **phase1.algorithm2**: new reward withdrawal algorithm for **Phase1** after optimization
* **phase2.algorithm**: reward withdrawal algorithm for **Phase2**
* **rewardViSet**: the accumulated reward per vote for SR set in **Phase1**
* **rewardViRootHash**: the root hash of all data in **rewardViSet**
* **rewardViStore**: the database that stores the **RewardViSet**
* **SRStore**: SR database
* **rewardViCalService**: monitor **calculateRewardViTask** status
* **calculateRewardViTask**: calculate **RewardViSet** and store the result to **RewardViStore**
* **accumulateRewardPerVote\[i, s\]**: the accumulated reward per vote for SR *s* after **maintenance** *i*
* **totalReward(i, s)**: the total voting rewards of voters for SR *s* at **maintenance** *i*
* **totalVote(i, s)**: the total votes for SR *s* at **maintenance** *i*
* **finishFlag**: the flag indicates whether the **calculateRewardViTask** is completed
* **newRewardCycle**: the **maintenance** which the proposal of **phase2.algorithm** is activated, which is 4708 on mainnet
* **startCycle**: the **maintenance** when the user starts to vote
* **endCycle**: the **maintenance** when the user cancels the voting
* **userVote(s)**: the number of use’s votes for SR *s*
* **userReward(s)**: the user rewards for voting SR *s*
* **newRewardCalculationAlgorithmProposal**: new voting reward algorithm proposal for TIP-465
* **phase1OptProposal**: the new proposal for **phase1.algorithm2**

In **Phase1** and **Phase2**, the calculation logic of voting reward for a single SR vote is as follows:

* **Phase1.algorithm1**:

```Plain Text
userReward(s) = for i range [startCycle, newRewardCycle) {
  userReward(s) += userVote(s)/totalVote(i, s) * totalReward(i,s) 
}
```
* **Phase2.algorithm**:

```Plain Text
userReward(s) = userVote(s) * (accumulateRewardPerVote[newRewardCycle - 1,s] - accumulateRewardPerVote[endCycle - 1,s])
```
**Phase1.algorithm1** uses iterative calculations for each **maintenance\[startCycle, endCycle)** and does an accumulation in the final, and the algorithm complexity is O(n).

**Phase2.algorithm** directly multiplies the **userVote(s)** and the delta between the **accumulateRewardPerVote\[startCycle-1, s\]** and **accumulateRewardPerVote\[endCycle-1, s\]**, and the algorithm complexity is O(1). For more information please refer to TIP-465.

The **Phase1.algorithm2** remains the same as the **Phase2.algorithm**. Based on the previous analysis, this optimization includes the following steps:

1. Pre-calculate **rewardViSet**, and persist it into **rewardViStore**.
2. Using **phase1OptProposal** to control whether the **phase1.algorithm2** should be adopted.
3. After the **phase1OptProposal** is passed, the reward calculation of the transactions involved in Phase1 will use **phase1.algorithm2**, which will use the **rewardViSet** to calculate the result with O(1) performance. The difference between **phase1.algorithm1** and **Phase1.algorithm2** is within 1 TRX.

**Note**: The voting reward withdrawal can be triggered by the following transactions:

- `VoteWitnessContract`
- `UnfreezeBalanceContract`
- `UnfreezeBalanceV2Contract`
- `WithdrawBalanceContract`

# Rationale
### Impacts on Ecology
* For the total supply of TRX: the core calculation logic of **phase1.algorithm1** is consistent with **Phase1.algorithm2**. This optimization aims to improve the performance of **phase1.algorithm1**. At the same time, **Phase1.algorithm2** improves the calculation accuracy. This optimization has almost no impact on the circulation and inflation of the entire TRX.
* User rewards: since higher precision is used, user rewards will be closer to the expected value without multiple decimal truncations. However, since there is not much difference in the calculation results before and after optimization, this optimization has little impact on users.

### Data Consistency
This optimization affects the voting reward calculation logic and the consensus. Therefore, a proposal is needed to control the optimization to ensure data consistency on the chain.

### Pre-calculation of **rewardViSet**
To minimize the impact on node performance, pre-calculation is executed asynchronously. However asynchronous tasks often have some state synchronization problems, so the execution logic of pre-calculation tasks needs to be described in detail here.

1. **RewardViCalService**: This service will start with the node. It is responsible for detecting whether the **newRewardCalculationAlgorithmProposal** is enabled for every 3s.
    1. if enabled: execute **calculateRewardViTask** asynchronously
        1. **calculateRewardViTask** has been completed based on the **finishFlag**.
            1. completed: stop the monitor service, then return
            2. not completed: start **calculateRewardViTask** and wait for complete, stop monitor service, then return
    2. not enabled: enter the next detection
2. **CalculateRewardViTask**:
    1. calculate SR single vote accumulated reward value from the maintenance period TIP-53 took effect to TIP-465 took effect
    2. store **rewardViSet** into **RewardViStore**, the data composition is consistent with TIP-465
    3. write **finishFlag**

### Transaction Execution
Check if there is any Phase1 voting reward

1. if there is: check if **phase1OptProposal** is activated
    1. activated: check if the **calculateRewardViTask** is completed
        1. completed: transaction adopts **Phase1.algorithm2**.
        2. not completed: blocked and waiting for the **calculateRewardViTask** to be completed, and the transaction adopts **Phase1.algorithm2**.
    1. not activated: the transaction adopts **Phase1.algorithm1**
2. if there is not: the transaction adopts **Phase2.algorithm**

# Backward Compatibility
According to the above sections, this optimization has no compatibility issues. Please note that if any third party implements an off-chain voting reward estimation algorithm individually, please adapt these changes promptly.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).