# Lite FullNode
Lite FullNode runs the same code with FullNode, the difference is that Lite FullNode only starts based on state data snapshot, which only contains all account state data and historical data of the latest 65536 blocks. The state data snapshot is small, only about 3% of the FullNode data. Therefore, Lite Fullnode has the advantages of occupying less disk space and starting up fast, but it does not provide historical block and transaction data query by default, and only provides part of HTTP API and GRPC API of FullNode. For APIs that are not supported by Lite Fullnode, please refer to [HTTP]( https://github.com/tronprotocol/java-tron/blob/develop/framework/src/main/java/org/tron/core/services/filter/LiteFnQueryHttpFilter.java), [GRPC](https://github.com/tronprotocol/java-tron/blob/develop/framework/src/main/java/org/tron/core/services/filter/LiteFnQueryGrpcInterceptor.java). But these APIs can be opened by configuring `openHistoryQueryWhenLiteFN = true` in the configuration file, because after the Lite Fullnode startup, the saved data by the Lite Fullnode is exactly the same as that of the FullNode, so after this configuration item is turned on, the Lite Fullnode supports querying the block data synchronized after the node startup, but still does not support querying the block data before the node startup.

Therefore, if developers only need to use node for block synchronization, processing and broadcasting transactions, or only query the blocks and transactions synchronized after the node starts up, then Lite Fullnoe will be a better choice.

## Lite FullNode Deployment
The deployment steps and startup command of a Lite fullnode are the same as fullnode's, please refer to [Deployment Instructions](installing_javatron.md) to deploy a Lite Fullnode. The only difference is the database. You need to obtain the Lite Fullnode database. You can download the Lite Fullnode data snapshot from the [public backup data](backup_restore.md/#lite-fullnode-data-snapshot) and use it directly; or use the [Lite Fullnode data pruning tool](toolkit.md/#lite-fullnode-data-pruning) to convert the Fullnode database to Lite Fullnode database.



## Lite FullNode Maintenance
Since the Lite Fullnode will save the same data as the FullNode's after startup, although the data volume of the Lite Fullnode is very small at startup, the data expansion rate in the later period is the same as that of the FullNode, so it may be necessary to periodically cut the data. Pruning Lite Fullnode data is also to use [Lite Fullnode data pruning tool](toolkit.md/#lite-fullnode-data-pruning) to split Lite Fullnode data into snapshot dataset, that is, to obtain the pruned Lite Fullnode data.
