---
author: federico<federico.zhen@tron.network>
category: TRC
created: '2019-10-17'
discussions-to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/101
status: Last Call
tags:
- Last Call
- TRC
tip: '101'
title: Wallet Keystore Specification
type: Standards Track
---

## Simple Summary

This TIP describes the keystore generation method to store the private key in wallet. 

## Abstract

Private key is fatally important for users, which should be kept carefully. Mnemonic code specified in [BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki) is used to 
generate the private key, but it is not convenient for users to remember. Usually, encrypted private key is stored in keystore file and can be recovered by passphrase. This is a standard
about keystore specification, which includes the procedures of key derivation, symmetric encryption and message authentication. 

## Motivation

The proposal presents the explicit cryptographic method to generate the keystore file and guarantee the security of users' private keys.


## Specification

There are mainly three steps as follows.

### Key Derivation Function 

First, the user needs to provide the passphrase as the input of [PBKDF2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PBKDF2). The key derivation function has five input parameters:


    DK = PBKDF2(PRF, Passphrase, Salt, c, dkLen)

where
* *PRF* is a pseudorandom function generated by SHA256
* *Passphrase* is the master password from which a derived key is generated
* *Salt* is a sequence of bits, known as a cryptographic salt
* *c* is the number of iterations desired
* *dkLen* is the desired bit-length of the derived key
* *DK* is the generated derived key

### Symmetric Encryption
The derived key *DK* is used as key of [AES](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) to encrypt the real private key of user.

    C = AES-128(DK, PrivK, CTR, iv)

where
* *DK* is the derived key
* *PrivK* is the private key of user，which is generated by mnemonic codes specified in [BIP39](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki) 
* *CTR* is the counter encryption mode
* *iv* is  128-bit initialisation vector for the cipher
* *C* is the generated cipher text

### Message Authentication Code

MAC (Message authentication code) is used to check the correctness of derived key *DK* when the user try to decrypt the private key 
with the passphrase. [SHA3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-3) is used to produce the MAC:

    mac = SHA3-256 (DK || C)

where
* *DK* is the derived key
* *C* is the cipher text of private key 
* *mac* is the generated MAC

## Rationale

The SHA256 and AES used in the proposal are all international cryptography standard, which are sufficient to ensure the security of the private key.

## Test Cases
For *Passphrase* = ``dark1234``, the generated keystore file is: 

     {"crypto":
        {"cipher":"aes-128-ctr",
          "cipherparams":{"iv":"faa1c1b73bb9630b8abb7930eccc85f0"},
          "ciphertext":"3c46834a29e69fc206277838fdeb395320d7da10d2c067f5b1e0a8a52524fde3",
          "kdf":"pbkdf2",
          "kdfparams":
             {"c":10240,
              "dklen":32,
              "prf":"hmac-sha256",
              "salt":"aaf471468f1030229004f5a189be470fde806685ede147b1694be60fb15b70f1"
             }, 
          "mac":"ff7679e803175ba739fadbffe38959282f45aefa3458f083eedc76fc220b201e"
        },
        "id":"e40c9b94-369c-4b75-a2cd-8c68d542e093",
        "version":3,
        "address":"fdf9ae6a88fd403cdd2433c23230e729d12d6de4"
     }
 
 ## Implementation
 None
     
## Reference
* https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Web3-Secret-Storage-Definition


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).