---
author: federico<federico.zhen@tron.network>
category: TRC
created: '2021-07-13'
discussions-to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/292
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- TRC
tip: '292'
title: Add a proposal to adjust the free net limit in an account
type: Standards Track
---

## Simple Summary

This TIP will add a proposal to adjust the free net limit in an account.

## Abstract

The free net limit is the free bandwidth resource that can be used by the users to decrease the transaction fee.  At present, the free net limit is set as a fixed value `5000`. But recently,  some malicious behaviors are discovered to generate lots of fraudulent TRC10 transactions by abusing the free bandwidth resources. To restrain this situation, we propose to change the free net limit.



## Motivation

We can restrain the fraudulent TRC10 transactions by increasing their cost.  So the free net limit value should be configurable instead of being a fixed value.  The free net value limit needs to be decreased when lots of fake TRC10 transactions appeared.  There should be a proposal to change the free net limit.


## Specification

The `FREE_NET_LIMIT` proposal type is defined as :
```java
 public enum ProposalType {
  ...
  FREE_NET_LIMIT(61), // 5000, [0, 100_000]
  ...
 }
```
The proposal code is `61` and its initial value is set `5000`. The valid range of `FREE_NET_LIMIT`  parameter is `[0, 100,000]`.

The average bandwidth consumption of a transaction is in the range `[300, 500]`, so the `FREE_NET_LIMIT` parameter can be adjusted according to the number of free transactions the users are allowed to use in a day.

## Rationale
In addition, to restrain the fraudulent TRC10 transactions, it is quite necessary to adjust the free net limit to adapt to different situations in the TRON network.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).