---
author: Andy <jell7@163.com>
category: Interface
created: '2022-03-13'
discussions to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/387
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- Interface
tip: '387'
title: Transaction memo fee
---

## Simple Summary
It is recommended that transaction memo burn trx to reduce transactions with fake memo.

## Motivation
TRC10 token does not need to consume energy because of free bandwidth. Every day there are tens of thousands of transfer memo with fake news, scam links. Serious impact on TRON ecology.

And there is currently no good solution to distinguish normal memo from fake memo.

Maybe we can modify the resource model to fix this, the consumption of resources can be a fixed burning of 1TRX for transfers with memo, similar to the consumption of 1trx for multi-signature transactions.

@zleanore made a statistic and counted the number of transactions with memo in the network in the past 3 months, as shown in the following table:

|                              | Total value  | Smart Contract Call  | TRX Transfer | TRC10 Transfer |
|------------------------------|--------------|----------------------|--------------|----------------|
| transaction                  | 290,885,045  | 124,687,814          | 109,745,281  | 49,615,190     |
| transaction with MEMO        | 13,212,995   | 181,483              | 1,008,166    | 12,022,636     |
| transaction with URL in MEMO | 5,670,600    | 3,963                | 299,309      | 5,367,328      |

In the past 3 months, we saw 13,212,995 transactions with memo, of which 5,670,600 transactions were with URL, which accounted for 42.9%. We can clearly see that these memo with url are almost all deceptive, they hope users to open the url and jump to the scam they designed.

5,670,600 transactions with memo with url, of which 5,367,328 are TRC10 transfers, accounting for 94.6%, indicating that scammers prefer to use low-cost TRC10 transactions to implement their scam plans.

If each memo needs to pay 1trx, the cost of scamming in the past 3 months will reach 5,670,600 TRX, which will be a huge challenge for scammers.

We can also see that in the past 3 months, transactions with memo only accounted for 4.5% of the total network transaction volume, so the memo fee will have no negative impact on most users
## Specification
The `raw_data.data` field in the transaction is used as memo. If `raw_data.data` is not empty, the transaction burns N TRX, N is a network parameter, and the number of N is 0 by default. It can be modified by SRs voting. Modify it to 1 first, then change it according to the number of AD transactions.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).