---
author: Aaron <aaronluotron@gmail.com>
category: Interface
created: '2022-09-26'
discussions to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/466
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- Interface
tip: '1193'
title: TRON Provider JavaScript API
---

## Table of Contents
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Summary](#summary)
- [Abstract](#abstract)
- [Specification](#specification)
  - [API](#api)
    - [API: request](#api-request)
      - [Example](#example)
      - [Parameters](#parameters)
      - [Returns](#returns)
      - [Error Code](#error-code)
        - [Provider Error](#provider-error)
  - [Property](#property)
    - [Property: tronWeb](#property-tronweb)
      - [Example](#example_1)
      - [Constraints](#constraints)
    - [Property: is\[WalletName\]](#property-iswalletname)
      - [Example](#example_2)
  - [Events](#events)
    - [Event: connect](#event-connect)
      - [Example](#example_3)
    - [Event: disconnect](#event-disconnect)
      - [Example](#example_4)
    - [Event: chainChanged](#event-chainchanged)
      - [Example](#example_5)
    - [Event: accountsChanged](#event-accountschanged)
      - [Example](#example_6)
- [Security Considerations](#security-considerations)
    - [Handling Adversarial Behavior](#handling-adversarial-behavior)
- [Backwards compatibility](#backwards-compatibility)
## Summary
This protocol specifies a JavaScript TRON provider, it is used to ensure the consistency of interaction between TRON wallets and TRON DApps.
## Abstract
A common convention in the TRON web application (“DApp”) ecosystem is that the key management software ("wallets") exposes their API via a JavaScript object on the web page. This object is called “the Provider”.
​
This protocol normalizes the TRON provider's API and is designed to be event-driven, independent of the call method. The Provider can be easily extended by defining new methods and event types.
​
This protocol recommends using `window.tron` as the Provider.
​
Historically, some TRON wallets provide tronWeb object, and this protocol recommends that the Provider will still provide tronWeb object to avoid additional compatible development of TRON DApps for the Provider of this protocol.
​
​
## Specification
### API
The Provider must implement and expose the API and property defined in this section. All API and property entities must adhere to the types and interfaces defined in this section.
​
#### API: request
##### Example
```typescript
tron.request({
  method: 'requestMethod',
  params: ['param1', 'param2'],
})
```
​
##### Parameters
```typescript
interface RequestArguments {
  readonly method: string;
  readonly params?: unknown[] | object;
}
```
 - The Provider must identify the requested method by the value of `RequestArguments.method`.
 - If the requested method takes any parameters, the Provider must accept them as the value of `RequestArguments.params`.
​
##### Returns
 - `tron.request` must be handled such that the returned Promise either resolves with a value per the requested method’s specification, or rejects with an error.
 - If resolved, the Promise must resolve with a result per the method’s specification, unless the method’s return type is particularly defined.
 - If the returned Promise rejects, it must reject as specified in the [Error Code](#error-code) section below.
 - The returned Promise must reject if any of the following conditions are met:
   - An error is returned for the request.
   - The Provider encounters an error or fails to process the request for any reason.
 - The returned Promise should reject if any of the following conditions are met:
   - The Provider is disconnected. If rejecting for this reason, the Promise rejection error code must be `4900`.
   - The `tron.request` request is directed at a specific chain, and the Provider is not connected to that chain, but is connected to at least one other chain. If rejecting for this reason, the Promise rejection error code must be `4901`.
   - The Provider does not support the `method` in `tron.request` request. If rejecting for this reason, the Promise rejection error code must be `4200`.
##### Error Code
The structure that returns the error is as follows：
```typescript
interface ProviderRpcError extends Error {
	code: number;
	message: string;
	data?: unknown;
}
```
 - `message`
   - must be a human-readable string
   - Should be the `message` of the [Provider Error](#provider-error) section, or the `message` in the method's specification
 - `code`
   - must be an integer number
   - Should be the `code` of the [Provider Error](#provider-error) section, or the `code` in the method's specification
 - `data`
   - should contain any other useful information about the error
​
​
###### Provider Error
| code | message | Description |
| ----  | ----  | ---- |
| 4001 | User Rejected Request | The user rejected the request. |
| 4100 | Unauthorized | The requested method and/or account has not been authorized by the user. |
| 4200 | Unsupported Method | The Provider does not support the requested method. |
| 4900 | Disconnected | The Provider is disconnected from all chains. |
| 4901 | Chain Disconnected | The Provider is not connected to the requested chain. |

​
### Property

#### Property: tronWeb
wallet needs to import [tronWeb library](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tronweb), instantiate tronWeb, The Provider provides instantiated tronWeb for DApps.
##### Example
```typescript
const tronWeb = tron.tronWeb;
```
##### Constraints
`tron.tronWeb` needs to meet the following requirements:
 - When the wallet changes the currently connected chain, it must reinitialize tronWeb and update `tron.tronWeb`
​
#### Property: is[WalletName]
This is a non-normative property, but wallet implementation is recommended.
In actual development, the DApp may need to determine what wallet is currently providing the Provider, so as to facilitate the compatible development of different wallets by the DApp.
For example: `isTronLink`, `isTokenPocket`, `isTrustWallet`, etc.
This protocol does not limit the specific property name, nor does it require the implementation of this property.
##### Example
```typescript
const isTronLink = tron.isTronLink as boolean;
```
​
### Events
The Provider must implement the following event handling methods:
 - `on`
 - `removeListener`
 
These methods must be implemented according to[Node.js EventEmitter API](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html).
​
#### Event: connect
If the Provider becomes connected, the Provider must emit the event named `connect`.
This includes when:
 - The Provider first connects to a chain after initialization.
 - The Provider connects to a chain after the `disconnect` event was emitted.
This event must be emitted with an object of the following form:
```typescript
interface ProviderConnectInfo {
  readonly chainId: string;
}
```
 - The chainId must be obtained through the RPC method of TRON's `eth_chainId`.
##### Example
```typescript
tron.on('connect', (connectInfo: ProviderConnectInfo) => {
  console.log(connectInfo); // example: {chainId: '0x2b6653dc' }
})
```
#### Event: disconnect
If the Provider becomes disconnected from all chains, the Provider must emit the event named disconnect with value error: `ProviderRpcError` object according to the [Provider Error](#provider-error) specification.
##### Example
```typescript
tron.on('disconnect', (providerRpcError: ProviderRpcError) => {
  console.error(connectInfo); // example: { code: 4900, message: 'Disconnected' }
})
```
#### Event: chainChanged
If the chain to which the Provider is connected changes, the Provider must emit a `chainChanged` event and emit an object of type `ProviderConnectInfo` that explicitly informs the new chainId value.
##### Example
```typescript
tron.on('chainChanged', (connectInfo: ProviderConnectInfo) => {
  console.log(connectInfo); // example: {chainId: '0x2b6653dc' }
})
```
#### Event: accountsChanged
If the Provider's current account changes, the Provider must emit the `accountsChanged` event and the currently available account address in the form of `accounts: string[]`.
##### Example
```typescript
tron.on('accountsChanged', (accounts: string[]) => {
  console.log(accounts); // example: ['TQKLs3GzCNLjzyCvaPWSrqcpUGUhadxm7P']
})
```
​
## Security Considerations
The Provider is intended to pass messages between a TRON wallet and a TRON DApps. It is not responsible for private key or account management; it merely processes messages and emits events. Consequently, account security and user privacy need to be implemented in middleware between the Provider and its TRON wallet. The Provider can be thought of as an extension of the wallet, exposed in an untrusted environment, under the control of some third party.

#### Handling Adversarial Behavior
Since the Provider is a JavaScript object, consumers can generally perform arbitrary operations on the Provider, and all its properties can be read or overwritten.
Therefore, it is best to treat the Provider object as though it is controlled by an adversary. It is paramount that the Provider implementer protects the user, wallet by ensuring that:
 - The Provider does not contain any private user data.
 - The Provider and wallet programs are isolated from each other.
 - Set a limit for the Provider's request rate to the wallet.
 - The wallet validates all data sent from the Provider.

## Backwards compatibility
Before this protocol was finalized, some wallets implemented non-normative versions. In order to be compatible with the historical DApps, the wallets can be compatible with non-normative versions on the premise of implementing this protocol.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).