---
author: Aaron <aaronluotron@gmail.com>
category: Interface
created: '2022-09-05'
discussions to: https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/issues/463
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- Interface
tip: '1102'
title: Opt-in account exposure
---

## Table of Contents
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [Simple Summary](#simple-summary)
- [Motivation](#motivation)
- [Specification](#specification)
    - [Examples](#examples)
    - [Returns](#returns)
    - [Error Code](#error-code)
    - [Constraints](#constraints)
- [Backwards Compatibility](#backwards-compatibility)


## Simple Summary
This protocol is used to describe the communication between a DApp and a wallet. It allows the wallet to determine what information and when to provide it to the DApp.

## Motivation
Currently, there is no such protocol on TRON. This leads to inconsistent implementation of DApps connected to TRON, which objectively increases the development workload of DApp developers.
The goal of this proposal is to standardize the method for DApps to obtain user information from the wallet.
Description of the proposal: Wallet will not disclose any account information until the user agrees, so as to ensure the security of the user's information.
Ethereum's [EIP-1102](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1102) is a similar protocol that can be followed.

## Specification
`eth_requestAccounts`
#### Examples
```javascript
try {
  await tron.request({method: 'eth_requestAccounts'});
} catch (e) {}
```
#### Returns
If successful, an array will be returned, the array has one element, which is the address of the current account, like：
`['TQKLs3GzCNLjzyCvaPWSrqcpUGUhadxm7P']`.

If it fails, an error code and an error message will be returned. See the [Error Code](error-code) section for details.
#### Error Code
|  Code   | Message  | Description |
|  ----  | ----  | ---- |
| -32002  | Other requests are being processed | current DApp is processed, it cannot execute the current request |
| -32602  | Invalid params | invalid parameters, or added additional parameters |
| 4001  | User rejected request | the user has rejected this request |
| 4200  | Unsupported method | unsupported method |

#### Constraints
 - The wallet must define an `eth_requestAccounts` method.
 - If Promise is resolved, the wallet must return an array containing at least one account.
 - If no account is available, the wallet must reject the Promise and return an error message
 - If the user rejects, the wallet must reject the Promise and return an error message.
 - If the user can no longer accept the Promise, for example, the user interface is closed and the user interface cannot be invoked again, the wallet must reject the Promise and return an error message.


## Backwards Compatibility
This protocol has no impact on existing wallets and DApps, but it is recommended that all wallets and DApps implement this protocol.
It is also recommended to implement this protocol for DApps that have already implemented other similar functional protocols.


## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).