---
author: yanghang8612@163.com
category: Interface
created: '2023-05-15'
status: Final
tags:
- Final
- Interface
tip: '544'
title: Add `data` to the http interfaces interacting with smart contract
type: Standards Track
---

## Simple Summary

This TIP is designed to optimize the http interfaces interacting with smart contract in order to make them more user-friendly.

## Abstract

The http interfaces interacting with smart contract must pass the `function_selector` and `parameters` fields, the user cannot interact with smart contracts by passing `data` directly.

Meanwhile it is not possible to estimate the energy consumption for creating smart contract transactions through the http interfaces.

## Specifications

### `wallet/triggersmartcontract`
User can call this API to read/write the smart contract.

Params:

1. `owner_address` - Required. Account address.
2. `contract_address` - Required. Contract address.
3. `call_value` - Optional. The amount of TRX transferred into the contract.
4. `call_token_value` - Optional. The amount of TRC-10 transferred into the contract.
5. `token_id` - Optional. The token id of TRC-10 transferred into the contract.
6. `function_selector` - Optional (***Used to be required***). The signature of the function (like `transfer(address,uint256)`).
7. `parameter` - Optional. Parameter encoding needs to be in accordance with the ABI rules.
8. ***New!*** `data`: Optional. The data passed along with a transaction that allows us to interact with smart contracts.
9. `fee_limit` - Required. Maximum TRX consumption, measured in SUN.
10. `permission_id` - Optional. For multi-signature transactions.
11. `visible` - Optional. Whehter the address is in `BASE58` format.

Returns: unsigned transaction, data type is JSON string.

Example:
```
curl --request POST \
     --url https://api.shasta.trongrid.io/wallet/triggersmartcontract \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
     --header 'content-type: application/json' \
     --data '
{
  "owner_address": "TZ4UXDV5ZhNW7fb2AMSbgfAEZ7hWsnYS2g",
  "contract_address": "TG3XXyExBkPp9nzdajDZsozEu4BkaSJozs",
  "function_selector": "balanceOf(address)",
  "parameter": "000000000000000000000000a614f803b6fd780986a42c78ec9c7f77e6ded13c",
  "visible": true
}
'
```
or
```
curl --request POST \
     --url https://api.shasta.trongrid.io/wallet/triggersmartcontract \
     --header 'accept: application/json' \
     --header 'content-type: application/json' \
     --data '
{
  "owner_address": "TZ4UXDV5ZhNW7fb2AMSbgfAEZ7hWsnYS2g",
  "contract_address": "TG3XXyExBkPp9nzdajDZsozEu4BkaSJozs",
  "data": "70a08231000000000000000000000000a614f803b6fd780986a42c78ec9c7f77e6ded13c",
  "visible": true
}
'
```

### `wallet/triggerconstantcontract`
User can call this API to read or simulate writing the smart contract.

Params:

1. `owner_address` - Same as `wallet/triggersmartcontract`.
2. `contract_address` - Optional (***Used to be required***). If this parameter is not empty, then it means that the user wants to interact with the smart contract. Otherwise, it means that the user is trying to deploy a smart contract using `data`.
3. `call_value` - Same as `wallet/triggersmartcontract`.
4. `call_token_value` - Same as `wallet/triggersmartcontract`.
5. `token_id` - Same as `wallet/triggersmartcontract`.
6. `function_selector` - Optional (***Used to be required***). Same as `wallet/triggersmartcontract`.
7. `parameter` - Same as `wallet/triggersmartcontract`.
8. ***New!*** `data`: Optional. The data passed along with a transaction that allows us to interact with smart contracts.
9.  `visible` - Same as `wallet/triggersmartcontract`.

Returns: 

1. `result` - Run result.
2. `energy_used` - Energy consumed during execution.
3. `constant_result` - Result list of tiggered functions.
4. `transaction` - Transaction information.

### `wallet/estimateenergy`
User can call this API to estimate the energy consumption of smart contract transactions.

Params:

Same as `wallet/triggerconstantcontract`

Returns:

1. result - Run result.
2. energy_required - Energy consumption.

### Backwards Compatibility
None.

### Security Considerations
None.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://github.com/tronprotocol/tips/blob/master/LICENSE.md).